<?xml version="1.0"?>
<section id="about">
    <title>About Reindeer</title>

    <para>
    Reindeer is a C library for the rendering of virtual scenes, mainly in three
    dimensions. The library dynamically loads backend modules to do the
    rendering.
    </para>

    <para>
    Any number of rendering contexts can live at the same time. Contexts are
    tied to a backend and backends are automatically loaded and unloaded on
    demand. Resources are defined globally and can be used by any number of
    contexts at the same time, even in different backends.
    </para>

    <para>
    The main goal is to make it easier for developers to write applications
    that have many rendering contexts with shared resources and automatic state
    management. Another advantage is that the user can choose in which way a
    scene should be rendered without recompiling the application. For example, a
    scene could be rendered with a rasterizer like OpenGL at one point, and with
    a raytracer at another. Reindeer can also be used to get portable graphics
    output. Reindeer is not a scene-graph library or a game engine, but it can
    be used to implement them.
    </para>

    <para>
    It's still up to the application to create and manage the native contexts
    that the Reindeer backends can work on. For example, an application would
    still need to use GLX or equivalent to be able to use the OpenGL backend.
    The Reindeer project also provides a package called GTK-Reindeer that makes
    this easier for developers of GTK+ applications.
    </para>
</section>
